Pay so let's talk a little bit about the response timing.
Now this is different than the response rate or member response rate was how often you respond to guests
when they're asking to book.
Obviously you think that's obvious but sometimes it's not.
Now response timing is the other metric that says how quickly someone responds.
Now if you look at a host host metric the kind of metric panel at the bottom of their listing you see
that it's only going to rate them in a couple dimensions.
It's only going to say if they respond under an hour in about an hour and I think after that it's another
tier system or it says in a few hours in a day in a few days and a week in a month something like that.
Now obviously there's a massive difference between responding under an hour and in a few hours and you
don't want to be in the second category.
Someone who responds in a few hours is going to get fewer bookings.
People are going to ask to put your property less surprisingly because if they look at it they say OK
I'm looking at two properties.
Keep this in mind almost every one is looking at multiple properties.
So they're going to make a mental comparison between the two.
If someone's looking for a property they're probably looking at two or three maybe they've narrowed
it down to two.
They look.
They see one person responds under an hour and they look and they see the other person and only responds
within a couple hours.
Obviously the person they're probably going to send messages to both.
But there's a good chance that they're going to send a message to the person responds within an hour.
And then if that person cannot host them then respond to the second person.
No it's just logical if you know someone's gonna respond in 30 minutes and another person responds usually
in two hours.
You don't need to message both of them.
You only really need to message the person who responds in 30 minutes.
Then see what they say and then move on.
Unless of course you like the other property better.
Regardless it's an advantage that you have if you respond quickly.
People see that people are more likely to ask you questions are more likely to actually send you inquiries.
Now if they know if someone looks at your property they know you respond very quickly.
Much much more likely to ask you a question about the property.
If I saw someone who only responded a couple of days and I had a question about the property why would
I ask them that question.
Now if I you know by the time they respond I already have a booking somewhere else.
So you have to kind of understand that dynamic between people seeing your page and booking based on
how responsive they think you are.
So the way that this works from you as the host It's actually pretty simple.
As soon as someone messages you the clock starts.
So if someone messages you at 2:00 o'clock Aramean B is going to record how long it takes you to send
back a message.
Now they're not rating what message you send back.
Anything you respond counts as a message and the clock stops.
So you're going to try to absolutely try to get every response within an hour.
But remember it's an average right.
So if you have someone you and you just miss their message and you're spot on for hours maybe you're
asleep you can offset this by getting a lot of messages where you respond in 10 15 20 minutes.
So don't worry about it if you miss one you just have to make it up over the average.
The key to this though is that you want to stop the clock as quickly as possible.
Had mentioned this previously in the last section but the way I suggest you actually do this is you
actually just respond a template response every single time.
Because a lot of times something will happen to send you a message.
It will be long.
You are going to look at it you see a long as you say OK I haven't read this in 30 minutes.
Thirty minutes becomes 45 minutes 45 minutes becomes an hour an hour becomes two hours.
By the time you get to it you sit there and you think about it for 10 15 minutes and you're over the
hour limit that we want to shoot for.
So what I always say you should do is you should immediately respond.
The same thing what I always say is let me get back to you.
I'll respond later or something like If it's a long response say hey let me read this in a second.
Sorry.
Just busy or something like that.
And what will happen is if you do that it stops the clock.
You get a high average but it also lets the other person know that hey I'm here I've already acknowledged
your message you don't need to go and message the other people.
Now don't go crazy with this once you've actually said it to them and you stop the clock.
Remember you want to get their bookings or try to respond in a decent amount of time.
Don't try to do it tomorrow but you do.
You've essentially bought yourself some leeway now.
Air B and B Like I said before it ranks everyone's response time in tears.
But they actually record this even below.
So if it says under an hour they actually rank you based on whether or not you respond in 10 minutes
20 minutes 30 minutes 40 minutes.
They just don't display that.
And the reason why they don't display that is because they don't want it's unrealistic to think that
we should be competing over who responds in 30 minutes 20 minutes and 10 minutes because you know a
lot of people for instance get most of their bookings while they're asleep that's the case with me.
I get a lot of my bookings from Europeans or people in China Japan pretty much they're booking when
I'm asleep so it's unrealistic to think that I'm going to be able to respond within an hour every single
time.
It's not just that if I respond within an hour I'm good.
It's more that if you respond to the faster you respond the better you get extra search points.
If you're even an even faster responder The number one best way of gaming this metric is one always
having a template that you respond to people regardless.
And then you come back to them and to set up your mobile phone onto this.
Now if you don't have a smartphone it doesn't actually it doesn't really matter because what happens
is when you get an inquiry as being busy to send you two things actually it's three things.
There's three things one's an e-mail e-mail notification saying hey you have an inquiry too.
It's going to have a push notification for Air B and B app and then three it's going to send you a text
message.
Now if you don't have a smartphone you don't have the app if you're not near a computer or you don't
have e-mail on your phone and not constantly checking your e-mail don't conflict checking on you know
my phone.
You're not going to see that one very quickly very easily you can miss that.
But a text message you're always going to see.
So that's what I like to use because that's my failsafe.
I'm always going to get a text message and that text message is it's never going to give you the entire
message it's always going to give you a couple of sentences and get cut off.
But it doesn't matter because a lot of people don't realize this.
You can respond to that text message.
So everybody is going to send you a text message it's going to say this guest says this.
Remember now.
Just type in your template response and text it back.
It's a text back.
The whole system is going to handle it for you.
That's the foolproof way of doing this as long as you can get cell service you should be good and you
don't even need a smartphone.
Always use the text message feature.
And I'd even go so far as to having have a message saved in somewhere else in your phone or you can
just copy and paste it again if you don't have a smartphone then just remember say hey let me get back
to us in just a second.
And then you can go and get to your computer or get to another someone or someone else's smartphone
and actually respond is the gist of this metric.
It's really important because people book more if you respond faster.
There are too many times that I've gotten bookings when the group could have easily fit in another proper
property better picture but I'm tied to my phone so I always respond.
If there's one thing I get across from this one be tied to your phone or be tied to some device where
you can get the inquiries just so you can respond and don't worry you're not going to be in the middle
of dinner getting a text message and saying hey hold on let me write this long extended prose about
whether or not you can stay with me.
Just text back a template that's the best way of stopping the clock and getting the response rate down
to something that's really going to help you in your search ranking.